ARPilot Documentation
---------------------

ARPilot is a small navigation interface tool for the AR.Drone2.0.
It takes its input from STDIN and relays control commands to
the drone. It can be executed on any pc-based linux host as
well as on the drone itself.

ARPilot is built on top of libarpilot, which offers all the 
needed functionality to operate the drone.

It supports several commands to directly control drone flight,
as well as a number of commands that control the drone until a
desired state is achieved like changing heading, or reaching a
desired altitude.

Automations are used for heading (turn until facing angle X),
and flight altitude (go up or down until at altitude X).

Automatic monitors are used for battery low and low altitude
events. At 10% battery the altitude is set to 5m (if higher).
At 5% battery the drone will land.
If the altitude drops to less than 60cm for a prolonged time
the drone will rise to 85cm. Also it is possible to have the
drone stay alt a given altitude over time (altitude fix) where
the altitude error is compensated by a second altitude monitor.
(see $ERR command)

Furthermore it is possible for the client to pass the current 
GPS position to the drone and have the drone log it.


Logging:
--------

libarpilot provides a http interface at port 8080 that provides
access to current states of the drone, logs, and emergency control
methods. Refer to 'http://drone:8080/index.html'.

Command syntax:
---------------

All commands are prepended by a start character '$' and 4 leters
of the respective command. (i.e. $MOVE) The command is followed
by a comma sign, and the needed number of parameters separated 
by commata. A newline '\n' indicates that the command is ended.
Commands are executed continously until the next command is 
received, but at the most for 2 seconds: then the drone is 
automatically put in 'HOVER' mode and its own autopilot is 
activated. It will hold position until the next command is issued.

Values:

The MOVE command takes its pitch, roll, gaz, and yaw values as
integers ranging between -1024 to 1024. Height is always given
in millimeters. Degree values are given in 1/1000 of a degree.

Control commands:
-----------------

MOVE - Move the drone
  $MOVE,roll,pitch,gaz,yaw
  Directly set the drone in motion using roll,pitch,gaz,and yaw.

STAT - Set drone state
  $STAT,state
  Set the drone flight state
    state:  0 - land
            1 - fly
          666 - emergency

TRIM - Execute a trim command
  $TRIM
  Set the accelerometer and magnetometer offsets.

HOVE - Switch to hover
  $HOVE
  Switch to the drones autopilot. Cancels all monitors and 
  automations.

CALI - Calibrate the sensor(s)
  $CALI
  Calibrate the magnetometer (Compass sensor). 

PRIN - Print some navdata information 
  $PRIN
  Print navdata and internal information.

HEAD - Head towards a given angle
  $HEAD,angle
  Automation: rotate the drone until pointing at given angle.

TURN - Execute a turn
  $TURN,angle
  Automation: rotate the drone by given angle

ALTI - Go to a specified altitude
  $ALTI,height,state
  Automation: rise or fall to the given altitude
              state: if set to '1' then monitor height and keep 
                     altitude.

RISE - Rise by some value
  $RISE,height
  Automation: rise or fall by 'height' millimeters.
              If altitude monitor is active, keep new height.

RECO - Record video
  $RECO,state
  Turn USB recording on or off ( '1' or '0').

ERRO - Detect and store error values
  $ERRO,angle,height
  Update the internal error values for angle and height.
  This helps the controller keep track of the distance to the
  ground and the current heading angle by taking other sources
  (i.e GPS) into account. Note that height is not absolute but
  over ground level (starting point, or navpoint).
  This is used for altitude fix.

LIMI - Set angle and speed limits
  $LIMI,yaw,vz,euler_angle,altitude
  Set the limits in the drone to given values.
  NOTE: The yaw and euler angles are given in 1/100 fractions, 
  instead of 1.75 set 175 

ECHO - Output what was input
  $ECHO,data
  Output data. Useful for debugging and logging.

QUIT - End program
  $QUIT
  Exit the controller app


GPS related commands
--------------------

PLON - Position: longitude
  $PLON,longitude
  Set the longitude (float value)
  
PLAT - Position: latitude
  $PLAT,latitude
  Set the latitude (float)
  
PALT - Position: altitude
  $PALT,altitude
  Set the altitude (int)

PCOU - Position: course
  $PCOU,course
  Set the course (int, 0-359)

PHDO - Position: Horizontal dilusion of precision
  $PHDO,hdop
  Set the current hdop value (int)
